docs: Connect NGINX Agent to NGINX One using an explicit forward proxy (#1025)
nginx/documentation: content/nginx-one/connect-instances/connect-using-squid.md

---
title: Prepare - Set up Squid as a proxy
toc: true
weight: 250
nd-docs: DOCS-000
---

NGINX Agent can be configured to connect to NGINX One using a [Squid proxy](https://www.squid-cache.org/). This is useful in environments where direct internet access is restricted or monitored.

## Before you start

Ensure you have the following:

- [Squid proxy server set up and running](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/InstallingSquid)
- [NGINX Agent is installed]({{< ref "nginx-one/agent/install-upgrade/" >}})

> - Access to the NGINX One console

Author: ```suggestion
- Access to the [NGINX One console]({{< ref "/nginx-one/getting-started.md#before-you-begin" >}}).
```

> 

Reviewer: Extra line?
```suggestion
```

## Configure Squid

Follow the steps below to configure Squid with basic authentication.

1. Open the Squid configuration file with your favorite text editor (you might need superuser privileges):

   ```sh

>    vi /etc/conf/squid.conf

Reviewer: After installing Squid on Ubuntu:

```suggestion
   vi /etc/squid/squid.conf
```

If you trust the Squid wiki and build from source, the squid.conf file is at /usr/local/squid/etc/squid.conf

1. Run the NGINX Agent container with the environment variables set as follows:

   ```sh
   sudo docker run \
      --add-host "myproxy.example.com:host-gateway" \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_PORT=443 \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_HOST=agent.connect.nginx.com \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_AUTH_TOKEN="<your-data-plane-key-here>" \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY=false \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_PROXY_URL=http://myproxy.example.com:3128 \
      --restart=always \
      --runtime=runc \
      -d private-registry.nginx.com/nginx-plus/agentv3:latest
   ```

## NGINX Agent proxy authentication

If your Squid proxy requires authentication, you can specify the username and password in the `proxy` section of the `agent.conf` file:

1. Open a secure connection to your instance using SSH and log in.
1. Add or modify the `proxy` section of the NGINX Agent configuration file (/etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf) to include the authentication details:

   ```conf
   proxy:
      url: "http://proxy.example.com:3128"
      auth_method: "basic"
      username: "user"
      password: "pass"
   ```

> 1. Reload NGINX Agent to apply the changes:

Reviewer: Restart?

Author: ```suggestion
1. Restart NGINX Agent to apply the changes:
```

---
title: Prepare - Set up Squid as a proxy
toc: true
weight: 250
nd-docs: DOCS-000
---

NGINX Agent can be configured to connect to NGINX One using a [Squid proxy](https://www.squid-cache.org/). This is useful in environments where direct internet access is restricted or monitored.

## Before you start

Ensure you have the following:

- [Squid proxy server set up and running](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/InstallingSquid)
- [NGINX Agent is installed]({{< ref "nginx-one/agent/install-upgrade/" >}})
- Access to the NGINX One console

## Install Squid

Follow the instructions in the [Squid website](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/BinaryPackages) to install Squid on your server.

## Configure Squid

Follow the steps below to configure Squid with basic authentication.

> 1. Open the Squid configuration file with your favorite text editor (you might need superuser privileges):

Reviewer 2: In general I'm not a fan of this nested-list pattern: I find it a poor substitute to avoid headings. Tends to create formatting problems with multi-line instructions and code blocks.

I'd trust the fact the document is being read linearly from top to bottom and just have the sentence instructions on their own without numbers or indented commands.

   ```conf
   server:
      host: agent.connect.nginx.com
      port: 443
      proxy:
         url: "http://proxy.example.com:3128"
   ```

1. Reload NGINX Agent to apply the changes:

    ```sh
    sudo systemctl restart nginx-agent
    ```

### In a containerized environment

To configure NGINX Agent in a containerized environment:

1. Run the NGINX Agent container with the environment variables set as follows:

   ```sh
   sudo docker run \
      --add-host "myproxy.example.com:host-gateway" \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_PORT=443 \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_HOST=agent.connect.nginx.com \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_AUTH_TOKEN="<your-data-plane-key-here>" \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY=false \
      --env=NGINX_AGENT_COMMAND_SERVER_PROXY_URL=http://myproxy.example.com:3128 \
      --restart=always \
      --runtime=runc \
      -d private-registry.nginx.com/nginx-plus/agentv3:latest
   ```

## NGINX Agent proxy authentication

If your Squid proxy requires authentication, you can specify the username and password in the `proxy` section of the `agent.conf` file:

> 1. Open a secure connection to your instance using SSH and log in.

Reviewer 2: It's very basic, but could have an SSH command here with a placeholder for the IP.

> 1. Open the NGINX Agent configuration file (/etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf) with a text editor.
> 1. Add or modify the `proxy` section to include the authentication details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add or modify the `proxy` section of the NGINX Agent configuration file (/etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf) to include the authentication details:
```
